AN OVERVIEW OF TWO TYPES RELATIONSHIP ANALYSIS
apol, version 1.6
December 18, 2004
selinux@tresys.com


Apol allows one to analyze an SELinux policy to understand the relationship 
between two specific types that are defined in the policy. Policy developers 
may want to know if there exists any relationship (or interactions) between 
typeA and typeB and exactly what makes up that relationship (i.e., what rules, 
permissions, attributes, roles, etc. exist that cause or allow interactions 
between the two types). Or they may want to determine whether a particular 
type is completely isolated from another. This analysis can also be used as a 
stepping stone to analyzing dependencies within a policy. For example, one may 
want to determine whether typeA is dependent upon typeB or vice versa. Does typeA 
need to write to typeB or read from typeB to perform its' duties? What happens 
if typeA is removed from the policy?

Additional questions that this type of analysis may answer include: Are both 
types assigned to a common attribute or role? What users have access to this 
attribute and under what roles? What common object types do the types in 
question need to access? What makes them similar? What makes them unique, 
thus needing a separate type defined? How do the types, particularly domains, 
interact with each other; through process signaling or through a more complex 
interprocess communication (IPC) mechanism? Do the two types share any data 
and if so, how does information move from one domain to another?


UNDERSTANDING THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN TWO TYPES

When discussing the relationship between two types, the following aspects 
need to be determined:

  - the attribute(s) to which both types are assigned (common attribs) 
  - the role(s) which have access to both TypeA and TypeB (common roles)
  - the users which have access to both TypeA and TypeB (common users) 
  - all type transition rules from TypeA to TypeB or from TypeB  
    to TypeA. 
  - any process interactions between TypeA and TypeB (e.g., allow rules that   
    allow TypeA and TypeB to send signals to each other).  
  - object types to which both types are granted access. 
  - the unique object types to which TypeA and TypeB have access. 
  - any direct information flows between TypeA and TypeB (see "Information 
    Flow Analysis" under the Help menu) 
  - any transitive information flows between TypeA and TypeB (see "Information 
    Flow Analysis" under the Help menu) 
  - any domain transitions from TypeA to TypeB or from TypeB to TypeA. 
    (see "Domain  Transition Analysis" under the Help menu) 
    
This analysis may contain an overwhelming amount of information, so the results 
are simplified by listing each aspect of the analysis as a separate element 
within the listbox. This allows the user to select any aspect of the analysis 
from the listbox and have that specific information displayed within the results 
textbox. If desired, all results can be displayed at once by selecting the listbox 
item labeled 'Show All Results'.
	
