SELinux Policy Analysis Tool Help File
apol, version 3.0
September 1, 2006
selinux@tresys.com


This file contains basic help information for using apol, version 3.0.
This version of apol allows you to:

  + Examine, search, and relate policy components (types, type
    attributes, object classes, object permissions, roles, users,
    initials SIDs, MLS components, network and file system contexts,
    and booleans), and policy rules (type allow, neverallow,
    auditallow, dontaudit, type_transition, type_change, role allow,
    role_transition, and range_transition).

  + Create and query an on-disk database which contains SELinux
    context information about the filesystem.

  + Perform some automated analysis of policies which currently
    includes forward and reverse domain transition analyses, direct
    information flow analysis, and transitive (indirect) information
    flow analysis, direct relabel analysis, and type relationship
    analysis.

This version also supports binary policies.  This allows you to load
either a binary or source policy and use all of the features of Apol
as appropriate.  Obviously apol cannot display the policy source or
line numbers given a binary policy, so thus those features are
disabled In addition, attributes and initial SIDs data are inferred by
the policy contents.  Otherwise, Apol treats the two types of policies
similarly.

Apol attempts to provide compatibility with the current and older
policy syntax to allow one to analyze current and old policies.  As of
this version, we believe the tools are compatible with all policy
versions from version 12 to the current version 20.

See setools/ChangeLog for a list of new features in this release.  See
setools/KNOWN_BUGS for a list of current bugs.


1. MENUS:  

The FILE menu allows you to open a source or binary policy file,
provided that this file can be successfully parsed using checkpolicy
-d.  Only one policy file can be open at a time, so if you open
another file, the current one will be closed.

The QUERY menu allows the user to save and/or load a query for a TE
Rules search or for an analysis module listed on the Analysis tab.
Saving a TE Rules query involves saving the required query parameters,
whereas saving an analysis query involves saving the required query
parameters as well as the specified advanced settings to a file.
Query files are saved with a '.qf' extension.  When loading a query,
apol will parse the specified query file, raise the correct tab and
configure the query options with the specified query parameters and/or
advanced settings.  Currently, the save query menu item is only
enabled when the ANALYSIS TAB or the TE RULES TAB (see POLICY RULES
TAB below) is raised.  However, the load query menu item is enabled
across all tabs.  The Query menu also allows the user to display
statistics about the currently loaded policy.  A shorthand version of
these statistics is always displayed on the status bar when a policy
file is opened.

The ADVANCED menu currently allows you to directly manage permission
mappings for apol's direct and transitive information flow analyses.
You do not need to use this dialog in order to perform an information
flow analysis.  However you might need greater control over the
mappings of permission to read/write access for a given analysis you
are performing.  This dialog gives you the flexibility to control
these mappings directly.  See the separate help file on information
flow for more information about permission mappings and their
management.


2. POLICY COMPONENTS TAB

These tabs allow you to examine, search, and relate the core
components of an SELinux policy.

  2a. TYPES TAB:

  This tab lets you search through types and attributes.  You can
  double-click or right-click on any type or attribute in the list
  boxes to see full details for that type/attribute.  Details may
  include files labeled with a particular type or attribute, provided
  that a file index has been loaded (see File Contexts tab below).
  You can also use the search options and hit the OK button to perform
  a search.

  The "Search using regular expression" box allows you to search for
  types and/or attributes using a POSIX-style regular expression.

  2b. CLASSES/PERMS TAB:

  This tab allows you to view and search object classes, common
  permissions, and permissions defined in a policy.  Double clicking
  on any name from the three list boxes will give a brief summary of
  the class, permission, or common permission. The search options
  allow you to view more detailed aspects of classes and permissions.

  For example, if you wanted to know which objects use the permission
  getattr, you would select "Permissions", and the button "Object
  Classes" directly below it.  Then select "Search using regular
  expression" and type "^getattr$" in the box.  Then hit OK and see a
  list of object classes that use that permission (a * will mean that
  the class uses that permission via a common permission).

  You can use any regular expression to constrain the search.  So for
  example, to find all the permissions that start with the string
  "set", use the regular expression "^set".

  2c. ROLES TAB:

  This tab allows you to search roles and their allowed types.  It
  behaves a lot like the Types tab (e.g., double-click on a role for
  details about that role).

  The primary search option allows you to find all roles that include
  a given type.

  2d. USERS TAB

  This tab allows you to search users defined in the policy, and view
  the roles allowed for that user.  It also allows you to view the
  default MLS level and allowed MLS range for users if a MLS policy is
  loaded.

  2e. BOOLEANS TAB

  This tab allows you to search boolean variables defined in the
  policy, as well as view the current state and/or policy default
  state of the variable.  Additionally, you can change the state of the
  boolean variable to TRUE or FALSE from this tab.  Changing the state
  of a variable will be applied in memory and but will not change the
  state within the actual policy file.

  2f. MLS TAB

  This tab allows you to search sensitivities and categories in the
  policy, as well as display the level statements for sensitivities
  and which sensitivites can be associated with a category.

  2g. INITIAL SIDS TAB

  This tab allows you to search initial sids defined in the policy, as
  well as view the context for each initial sid.

  2h. NET CONTEXTS TAB

  This tab allows you to search network-based contexts (portcon,
  netifcon, and nodecon statements) defined in the policy.

  2i. FS CONTEXTS TAB

  This tab allows you to search filesystem-based contexts (fs_use_ and
  genfscon statements) defined in the policy.


3. POLICY RULES TAB 

These tabs allow more advanced analysis of an SELinux policy.  In
these tabs you can search and select from the many rules in a policy
based on a set of search criteria you select.

  3a. TE RULES TAB:

  This tab allows you to search through the type-enforcement
  rules.  This is the most complicated tab, and the one we use most
  extensively.
	
  This tab allows you to specify three different types of search 
  criteria:
	
    1. RULE SELECTION: allows you to decide the scope of search; only
       those rules selected will be included in the search.  At least
       one must be selected.  NOTE: By default, apol will search for
       all of the selected rules, if no search criteria is specified
       in the following subtabs.
		
    2. TYPE/ATTRIBUTES SUBTAB: allows you to refine a search based on
       types and/or type attributes used by a rule.  There are three
       general type search options: source, target, and default.
       Default is useful only if one or more of type
       transition/member/change rules are selected; other rules do not
       use the default field.  The source field can also be used as an
       "any" field.  In this case, the other two options will not be
       available, and the search will look for the selected
       type/attribute in any field of the selected rules.

       The drop down boxes allow you to select a type or attribute. If
       the "Search using regular expression" box is checked, then you
       can enter a regular expression in any type/attrib box.  If
       regular expressions are disabled, apol currently supports only
       one type/attribute in each box.  This type/attrib must be a
       complete, valid type or attrib string.  The Default field can
       only be a type (not an attribute).

       If the "Search only enabled rules" checkbox is selected, your
       query results will include all rules that meet the search
       criteria, EXCLUDING any rules that have been disbled by a
       conditional expression.  If the checkbox is not selected, then
       your query results will include all rules that meet the search
       criteria, INCLUDING those rules that have been disabled by a
       conditional expression.
		
       Typically a search for a particular type also returns rules
       that employ any of that type's attributes.  Likewise, a search
       for an attribute returns rules that use any of that attribute's
       types.  This "indirect" searching is enabled by default.  The
       "Only direct matches" checkbox alters the meaning of the search
       field such that it performs literal searches upon the
       identifier.

    3. CLASSES/PERMISSIONS SUBTAB: allows you to refine a search using
       object classes and/or permissions.  Only rules that contain the
       selected object classes and selected permissions will be
       returned.  Each of these boxes allow multiple selections.  In
       the case of multiple select, apol currently treats them using
       an "or" semantic (e.g., if two object classes, such as 'dir'
       and 'file', are selected, then rules that apply to file OR
       directory object classes are selected).

       This tab also includes a section for Allow and Audit Rule
       Permissions, which allows you to prune the list of permissions
       based on the object classes selected.  However, if allow and/or
       audit rules have not been selected, the Allow and Audit Rule
       Permissions section will be disabled, since permissions will
       not apply in this case.  If "All for selected classes" is
       selected, then only permissions related to selected objects are
       shown.  "Common to selected classes" instead only shows
       permissions that all selected classes have.
	
  In the Results Tab for a given search, all rules that meet the
  search criteria will be displayed.  In addition, if the policy that
  is opened is a policy source file, a hyperlink for each rule is
  shown.  Clicking on this link will take you to the policy.conf tab
  and highlight the exact line in the policy.conf file where the rule
  was found.  This will allow you to trace the rule back to the
  ultimate source code. If the policy is a binary policy, then the
  hyperlinks will not be provided and the policy.conf tab will be
  disabled.

  The TE Rules Tab also allows you to have multiple results windows.
  Each active window remembers the search options used for it, and
  will set all the options accordingly when selected.  You can use the
  "Update Search" button to change the results displayed for the
  current window based on the current search option.  "New Search"
  will create a new results window based on the current search
  options.  Use the "Close Tab" bar at the bottom to destroy a results
  window.  Also, the TE Rules tab allows you to save/load search
  criteria to a file (see MENU section above).

  3b. CONDITIONAL EXPRESSIONS TAB:
	
  This tab allows you to search conditional expressions within the
  policy, as well as view the rules within these conditional
  expressions.  Please note that conditional expressions are displayed
  in Reverse Polish Notation.
			
  By default, all conditionals are displayed, however you can search
  conditional expressions that use a specific boolean variable, as
  well as choose whether to use a regular expression.  The current
  state of each rule is provided by means of a tag within the results:
	
      [Enabled] - indicates the rule is enabled
      [Disabled] - indicates the rule is disabled	

  3c. RBAC RULES TAB:

  This tab allows you to search role-based access control rules.  It
  is similar in nature to the TE Rules tab, but somewhat simpler.  It
  allows you to search both role allow and role_transition rules.

  As with TE Rules, the Source role can also be used in an "any"
  search.

  3d. RANGE TRANSITION RULES TAB:

  This tab allows you to search to search range_transition rules.  You
  can search by source and target types and by the MLS range.  There
  are three options when searching for ranges; you can find exact
  matches to the entered range, find rules which have ranges that
  contain the entered range, or find rules which have ranges that are
  within the entered range.

  
4. FILE CONTEXTS TAB

This tab is only available if apol has been built with libselinux
support.  See the setools INSTALL file for further details on building
apol with/without libselinux support.  The tab provides the following
features:

  4a. Creating/Loading an Index File

  An index file is an on-disk database which contains SELinux context
  information about the filesystem.  This includes SELinux users and
  types associated with file paths and object classes.  This tab
  provides the user with the option of creating an index file or
  loading an existing one.  If the user has not loaded an index file,
  then all search items will be grayed out and a red label indicating
  that an index file is not loaded is displayed at the top.  Buttons
  are presented for creating and loading an index file.  Selecting the
  'Load' button displays a file selection dialog from which you can
  choose a saved index file to load.  Selecting the 'Create and Load'
  button will display a dialog for you to specify the save file and
  the directory from which to start the indexing.  Here, you may add
  multiple directories from which to index by using the 'Add' button
  or you may simply input a colon-delimited list of directory path
  strings within the entrybox.  Upon selecting the 'Create' button, an
  index file will be created and then loaded into apol.

  4b. Searching an Index File

  Searches on the index file can be done by specifying the user, type,
  object class, or path search criteria to search for using the
  widgets provided.  Drop down lists and entryboxes are presented for
  specifying the search criteria, of which the drop down lists contain
  items from the index file.  You can also use regular expressions,
  however, this option is not available for the object class field.
  Additionally, you choose whether to include the file context and/or
  object class within the results. To perform a search, click the 'OK'
  button.  Once the search is finished, you should be presented with a
  list of files that matched the criteria, along with their context
  and/or object type, if specified.


5. ANALYSIS TAB

This tab provides automated analysis capabilities.  The "Info" button
provides a description for the selected analysis type.  Also, this tab
allows you to save/load any query criteria to a file (see MENU section
above).

  5a. DOMAIN TRANSITION ANALYSIS
	
  The Domain Transition analysis module allows you to specify a
  transition direction for the analysis.  The 2 directions provided
  are:

      FORWARD: The Forward Domain Transition (FDT) analysis takes a
	       starting SOURCE domain and presents a tree of all the
	       resulting TARGET domains that can be transitioned into
	       from that starting domain.  The tree can be walked to
	       follow the FDT tree as deep as you like.  The only
	       restriction is that a subtree will not expand if its
	       parent is the same as the node. Each node in the FDT
	       tree represents a TARGET domain to which the parent
	       domain can directly transition.

               The Forward Domain Transition (FDT) analysis also
	       allows you to limit your query to find transitions only
	       to domains that are granted specific object class
	       permissions and/or are granted access to a particular
	       object type(s).  The 'Access Filters' dialog allows you
	       to select object types object classes, and permissions
	       in order to limit your query to this constrained
	       analysis.  By default, all object types, object classes
	       and permissions are included in the query.  Selecting
	       an object class from the listbox widget will display
	       all permissions for that object class.
		
               A specific example where this advanced feature would be
               useful is when one is seeking to find transitions from
               'user_t' to domains with write access to files in the
               'shadow_t' domain. In this case, the user should:

                 - Specify 'user_t' as the source domain.
                 - Using the Access Filters dialog, select the
		   'shadow_t' object type, 'file' object class, and
		   'write' permission.
	
      REVERSE: As its name implies, the Reverse Domain Transition
               (RDT) analysis is the reverse of the FDT analysis. The
               RDT takes a starting TARGET domain and presents a tree
               of all the resulting SOURCE domains that can directly
               transition to that TARGET domain.  The tree can be
               walked to follow the RDT tree as deep as you like.  The
               only restriction is that a subtree will not expand if
               its parent is the same as the node.  Each node in the
               RDT tree represents a SOURCE domain that can transition
               to its parent node.  This analysis does not allow you
               to constrain the query using the 'Access Filters'
               dialog, as you can in Forward Domain Transition
               analysis.

  Selecting a child node will show all the rules that permit the
  transition to occur.  In the case of a Forward Domain Transition
  analysis, access granted to this target domain will also be appended
  to the results.

  See the separate help file for an overview of the criteria that
  constitute a valid domain transition.

  4b. DIRECT INFORMATION FLOW ANALYSIS

  The Direct Information Flow (DIF) analysis takes a starting type and
  an information flow direction (IN, OUT, EITHER, or BOTH), and
  presents a tree with the starting type as the root node.  The child
  nodes represent other types in the policy where information flow can
  occur DIRECTLY between its parent node and itself.  If the flow
  direction is IN, then information in the child node types can flow
  to the parent node type.  If the flow direction is OUT, then
  information in the parent node can DIRECTLY flow to the child node.
  If the direction is BOTH then information can flow from child to
  parent and from parent to child. If EITHER is selected then flow
  direction will be IN, OUT, or BOTH.

  Selecting a child node will show all the rules that permit the
  information flow to occur.  Results are sorted by object class.

  You can filter the results by selecting one or more object classes.
  This will ensure that only those flows that are allowed for the
  selected object class will be shown (e.g., if you select file, then
  flows allowed for sockets will not be presented).  You can also use
  a regular expression to limit the results by end type.  Only those
  end types that match the provided regular expression will be
  presented.

  See the separate help file on information flow for more information
  about direct information flow.

  4c. TRANSITIVE INFORMATION FLOW ANALYSIS

  Whereas the DIF analysis identifies information flows that are
  directly allowed by one or more explicit rule, the Transitive
  Information Flow (TIF) analysis attempts a much more extensive
  analysis.  Specifically the TIF identifies indirect paths between
  two types.  Since such paths can be circuitous or over many hops,
  this analysis is quite difficult to achieve.

  Our current TIF takes a starting type and an information flow
  direction (To or From) and presents a tree with the starting type as
  the root node.  The child nodes represent other types in the policy
  where information flow can occur (directly or transitively) between
  the parent node and itself.  If the flow direction is To then the
  information flow is to the parent node.  If the flow direction is
  From then the information flow is to the child node.

  Selecting a child node will show each step in the flow chain between
  the starting node and the child node, along with the rules that
  allow that step to occur.  Results are sorted by object class.
  Additionally, embedded in the text of the results is a hyperlink for
  finding more flows between the starting node and the selected child
  node.  This link displays a dialog where you can specify a time
  limit for the search and/or limit the number of flows to find in the
  search.

  As with the DIF analysis, you can filter the results using end type
  regular expression.

  Additionally, the TIF analysis provides the Advanced Filters dialog
  for filtering results by object class permissions and/or types.
  Selecting an object class in the Advanced Filters dialog will
  display a list of permissions for that object class, whereby you can
  then choose to include or exclude certain permissions.  By default,
  all permissions for an object class are included in the query,
  unless you exlude a permission(s) by selecting its 'Exclude'
  radiobutton.  Configuring all permissions for an object class to be
  excluded will exclude the object class itself from the query. When
  an object class becomes excluded, its label will change to indicate
  that the object class is to be excluded from the analysis query.

  Additionally, the Advanced Filters dialog displays the weight value
  of a permission, as specified in the loaded permission map.  See the
  separate help file on information flow for more information about
  managing permission mappings.  You can specify a weight threshold in
  order to exclude permissions from the results that have weights
  below a certain threshold.  You can also filter the query results by
  including or excluding intermediate types.

  See the separate help file on information flow for more information
  about transitive information flow.

  4d. DIRECT RELABEL ANALYSIS

  See the separate help file on direct file relabel analysis. This can
  be accessed from the help menu in apol.

  4e. TYPES RELATIONSHIP SUMMARY ANALYSIS

  See the separate help file on types relationship summary analysis.
  This can be accessed from the help menu in apol.


5. POLICY.CONF TAB

This tab provides a convenient display of the raw policy source file.
In addition, the TE rules tab and the Domain Transition analysis (on
the Analysis tab) support a hyperlink to this tab if the loaded policy
is a source file.  Otherwise, this tab will be disabled and hyperlinks
to this tab will not be provided.
