SELinux Policy Checker Tool Help File
sechecker, version 1.1
May 17, 2006
selinux@tresys.com

This file contains the basic help information for using sechecker,
version 1.1.  This version of sechecker allows you to run 
a series of policy checks (modules) on a policy.  Sechecker is designed
to be extensible and configurable so that developers can easily add new
policy checks and configure them to run in batches with different options.

Each module analyzes a policy.  If you do not specify a policy on the 
command line, the tool use the system policy by default.  In addition, Some 
checks will require the file_contexts file in order to run correctly.  If 
you do not specify the file_contexts file the tool will use the system 
file_contexts file by default.

Checks can be run one at a time on the command line (by specifying a
module) or in a batch (by specifying a profile).  You can create a 
custom profile to configure a batch of modules with the options that you 
commonly use.

The return value of sechecker indicates whether a check failed on the policy.  
Therefore sechecker may be used in shell scripts or makefiles to do 
conditional branching.  


Report Output:
-------------
Sechecker generates a report with the output of each module that was 
run.  The report includes an explanation of each module, the modules'
severity, and the modules' results.  There are three output options to
specify what gets included in the report.

1.) quiet - don't print the report
2.) short - print the list of results for each module
3.) verbose - print the list of results for each module and the list of 
    proofs for each result


Modules:
-------
A module encapsulates a single check on the policy.  Modules can be
data driven by information specified in a profile, however each module 
will work using default values if no profile is used.  See the help for
the specific module(s) to determine what data may be overriden in a 
profile.  

Each module has a specified severity (high, med, low).  These are
defined as follows:

1) "high": the module-results indicate an identifiable security risk in 
   the selinux policy

2) "med":  the module-results indicate an flaw in the selinux policy that 
   changes the manner in which the policy is enforced, however does not 
   present an identifiable security risk.

3) "low":  the module-results indicate a flaw in the policy that does not 
   effect the manner in which the policy is enforced, but is considered to 
   be improper.



Profiles:
--------
There are three profiles that are installed with the sechecker program.  
The three profiles are described below.

1.) development: this profile includes several policy checks of low and
    med severity.  The checks are common tasks that a policy developer will
    consider helpful for writing good policy.

2.) analysis: this profile includes several policy checks of med and low
    severity that are of higher computational complexity than the development
    profile and not meant to be used very often by policy developers.

3.) all: this profile runs all the known modules.

Profiles can be create to run any set of modules with different options.  The
profile can specify the output format for each module.

Other Options:
-------------
You can specify a minimum module severity to report.  If the minimum severity
is "med", and the "all" profile is used all the modules that are "med" or "high"
will be run and the results for those modules will be reported by sechecker.  
The "low" severity modules listed in the profile will be ignored.
