SE Linux Policy Customization and Editing Tool Help File
sepcut, version 0.3.8
February 28, 2005
selinux@tresys.com


Overview
--------

This file contains basic help information for using sepcut, a policy 
customization, browsing, editing, and testing tool for Security 
Enhanced Linux.  This is version 0.3.8 of the tool, i.e., the very first 
generation.  Sepcut is a basic editor and early generation 
customization tool....use with caution.

The tool has three main tabs (and associated functions):

	BROWSE POLICY: This tab allows you to browse, view, and edit 
	any files within a given policy directory.  

	POLICY MODULES: This tab allows you to view all the 
	program "modules" within a policy directory, as well as to 
	enable/disable the module within the built policy.  Each 
	module has a .te and .fc file, each of which may also be 
	edited within this tab.

	TEST POLICY:  This tab allows you to test build, install, and 
	load a 	policy (i.e., by invoking one of the standard make 
	targets) and view the results.  

Together these three tabs gives you a complete, albeit basic, ability 
to view, edit, test, and debug a policy source directory.  


Menus
-----

Most of the menus are straightforward.  

	POLICY menu:  This menu allows you to choose (open) a policy 
	directory, re-load the currently opened policy directory, or close 
	the current policy directory.  A close happens implicitly on opening 
	or re-opening a policy directory.  The tool will do some basic 
	checking, and if it determines that the chosen directory does not 
	appear to be a valid policy directory, it will refuse to open the 
	directory and provide some error message. This tool requires a 
	reasonably modern policy source directory, that includes the 
	modularized .te and .fc program directories.  Sorry, this tool will  
	not work with older source directories. This menu also gives you the 
	ability to save all modified files as well as save/load module 
	configurations. However, you can only save/load module configurations 
	from the "Policy Modules" tab (see Policy Configurations 
	section below for more information). 
	
	*You can define a policy directory to be opened by default when 
	the tool starts in the global defaults (see below).
	
	FILE menu:  This menu allows you to view, save or revert files 
	that have been modified.  You can only do "save as" from the 
	browse tab (the Policy Modules tab allows you to create new modules 
	on the next menu).
	
	EDIT menu:  This menu lets you do three types of functions. 
	First, in the Policy Modules tab only, you can add or delete a new 
	module, which will create both a .te and .fc file for the new 
	module.  For Add module, these files are created on disk 
	immediately and added to the current display. Stubs of the 
	file contents are also created.  Future changes will need to 
	be saved.  You can also delete a module (which would 
	permanently delete both the .te and .fc files).  
	
		NOTE:  We strongly recommend against deleting modules;
		rather just disable them in the Policy Modules 
		tab.
	
	You can also enable all modules from the Edit menu.
	
	The Edit menu also allows you to go to a particular line in 
	the currently displayed file, as well as to toggle the Edit 
	mode.  This tool has a read-only and an edit mode.  The default 
	setting for this mode is defined in the global defaults 
	setting (see below). Additionally, you can perform a text search
	from this menu. 
	
	OPTIONS menu:  This menu allows you to define default tool settings 
	when the tool starts (see Setting Global Defaults:section below).

Browse Policy Tab:
-----------------

This tab is a simple browser, file viewer, and editor.  You can view 
and edit any file below the root of the policy directory.  You can 
also "save as" a file to another file, but the tool will not let you 
save a file outside the policy directory and its subdirectories.  This 
tab remains entirely consistent with any changes (enable/disable, file 
modifications/removal) performed in the Policy Modules tab.


Policy Modules Tab:
----------------------

This tab gives you a program module view of a policy source tree.  The 
view focuses on the ./domains/programs directory for type enforcement 
(.te) policy files and their associated file context (.fc) files in 
file_contexts/programs.  The convention is that each .te program file 
must have a .fc file with the same root filename.  This tab treats 
both files as two halves of a single module package, and allows you to 
enable (include in the built policy) and disable (exclude from the 
built policy) modules by checking the associated checkbox.  The tool 
disables a module by moving its .te file to an "unused" subdirectory, 
which will cause it (and its associated .fc) file to be excluded from 
the build process. It is recommended that the user save the default 
state of the policy before enabling/disabling modules, by selecting 
"Save Module Configuration" from the Policy menu. This way the user can 
reload the previous state should any problems occur or simply use this 
state as a starting point for further policy configurations. (see 
Policy Configurations section below for more information).

NOTE:	At some time we'll need to do some serious work in the policy
	to check for dependencies so a tool like this can ensure that
	dependencies are not violated...for now it's trial and error.  

Program modules can be displayed by filename or by descriptive name. 
The convention for descriptive name is to look for the first line to 
have a "#DESC" tag, and take the string following that tag as 
the descriptive name.  Not all files follow this convention, in which 
case we use the filename for both.  


Test Policy Tab:
---------------

This tab allows you to test compile the policy, with all changes and
module inclusions as specified in other tabs, to check for errors.
The TEST button will run the policy source through checkpolicy 
(i.e., compile the policy and check for syntax/semantic errors).
The CLEAN button will run a "make clean" on the policy directory.
The INSTALL button will compile the policy and attempt to
store the resulting binary in the system install location (if
you have permission).  The LOAD button does the same as install, but
also immediately loads the new policy into the kernel.  The RELABEL
button will relabel the entire filesystem.  Use this button with caution 
because it will take serveral minutes to complete.

You can also open the policy.conf file that results from a test
compile, and search by line number in that file.  This is useful
as it's really the only debug technique that exists for policy
compile errors.  

We also recommend using our policy analysis tool (apol) on the same
policy.conf file to help understand a policy.


Setting Global Defaults:
-----------------------

Sepcut default settings can be configured by editing your ~/.sepcut file. 
If this file does  not exist, sepcut will create it on exit and save all 
current settings here. These settings include whether the tool starts in  
edit or read-only mode, whether a policy is opened by default, and whether 
to show file names for the list of modules on the Policy Modules tab.  You can 
edit these settings  directly in your ~/.sepcut file.  The default settings 
section looks like:
	..
	[initial_edit_mode]
	1
	[inital_policy_dir]
	
	[show_customize_file_names]
	0

An explanation of each tag is as follows:

	initial_edit_mode - determines whether the tool starts in edit or read-only 
		            mode (0 read only, 1 edit mode).
	
	inital_policy_dir - if defined with something other than "", determines
			    what policy directory will open (load) by default.
	
	show_customize_file_names - determines whether modules are listed using 
		     		    descriptive name (0) or file name (1), by  
		     		    default, in the Policy Modules tab.

Policy Configurations:
-----------------------

Sepcut provides the ability for saving and loading the state of a configured
policy (i.e. a list of used and un-used policy modules). A saved policy 
configuration has ".pcfg" as its' file extension. NOTE: Loading a saved policy
configuration may CHANGE the current state of the policy! Therefore, it is 
recommended that the user save the current state of the policy before loading.
When loading a saved policy configuration, sepcut will read in all used and 
unused policy module names from the configuration file and then perform 
enabling/disabling of the actual modules in the policy directory. After loading 
the configuration, if there were any modules specified in the configuration file 
that were missing from the policy directory, a list of these modules will be 
displayed.

Known bugs
----------



                      
